README.md, before:

# Structor
=======

Vagrant files for creating virtual multi-node Hadoop clusters on various OSes,
both with and without security.

The currently supported OSes and the providers:
* centos 6 (virtualbox and vmware_fusion)

We'd like to get Ubuntu and SUSE support as well.

The currently supported projects:
* Ambari
* Hbase
* HDFS
* Hive
* MapReduce
* Oozie
* Pig
* Tez
* Yarn
* Zookeeper

We'd love to support Spark, Storm, etc. as well.

## Modify the cluster

Structor supports profiles that control the configuration of the
virtual cluster.  There are various profiles stored in the profiles
directory including a default.profile. To pick a different profile,
create a link in the top level directory named current.profile that
links to the desired profile.

Current profiles:
* 1node-nonsecure - a single node non-secure Hadoop cluster
* 1node-secure - a single node secure Hadoop cluster
* 1node-hbase-nonsecure - a single node non-secure Hadoop cluster with HBase
* 1node-hbase-secure - a single node secure Hadoop cluster with HBase
* 3node-analytics-nonsecure - a three node non-secure cluster with HiveServer2 set up.  Note that this does not have a gateway machine, it expects you to use JDBC to get to HS2 from the outside.
* 3node-nonsecure - a three node non-secure Hadoop cluster
* 3node-secure - a three node secure Hadoop cluster
* 3node-hbase-nonsecure - a three node non-secure Hadoop cluster with HBase
* 3node-hbase-secure - a three node secure Hadoop cluster with HBase
* 5node-nonsecure - a five node secure Hadoop cluster

You are encouraged to contribute new working profiles that can be
shared by others.

The types of control knob in the profile file are:
* nodes - a list of virtual machines to create
* security - a boolean for whether kerberos is enabled
* vm_memory - the amount of memory for each vm
* clients - a list of packages to install on client machines

For each host in nodes, you define the name, ip address, and the roles for 
that node. The available roles are:

* client - client/gateway machine
* hbase-master - HBase master
* hbase-regionmaster - HBase region master
* hive-db - Hive Metastore and Oozie backing mysql
* hive-meta - Hive Metastore
* hive-hs2 - HiveServer2
* kdc - kerberos kdc
* nn - HDFS NameNode
* oozie - Oozie master
* slave - HDFS DataNode & Yarn NodeManager
* yarn - Yarn Resource Manager and MapReduce Job History Server
* zk - Zookeeper Server

This is an example of the current default.profile
```
{
  "domain": "example.com",
  "realm": "EXAMPLE.COM",
  "security": false,
  "vm_mem": 2048,
  "server_mem": 300,
  "client_mem": 200,
  "clients" : [ "hdfs", "hive", "oozie", "pig", "tez", "yarn", "zk" ],
  "nodes": [
    { "hostname": "gw", "ip": "240.0.0.10", "roles": [ "client" ] },
    { "hostname": "nn", "ip": "240.0.0.11",
      "roles": [ "kdc", "hive-db", "hive-meta", "nn", "yarn", "zk" ] },
    { "hostname": "slave1", "ip": "240.0.0.12", "roles": [ "oozie", "slave" ] }
  ]
}
```

## Bring up the cluster

Use `vagrant up` to bring up the cluster. This will take 30 to 40 minutes for 
a 3 node cluster depending on your hardware and network connection.

Use `vagrant ssh gw`` to login to the gateway machine. If you configured 
security, you'll need to kinit before you run any hadoop commands.

## Set up on Mac

### Add host names

in /etc/hosts:
```
240.0.0.10 gw.example.com
240.0.0.11 nn.example.com
240.0.0.12 slave1.example.com
240.0.0.13 slave2.example.com
240.0.0.14 slave3.example.com
```

### Finding the Web UIs

| Server      | Non-Secure                   | Secure                        |
|:-----------:|:----------------------------:|:-----------------------------:|
| NameNode    | http://nn.example.com:50070/ | https://nn.example.com:50470/ |
| ResourceMgr | http://nn.example.com:8088/  | https://nn.example.com:8090/  |
| JobHistory  | http://nn.example.com:19888/ | https://nn.example.com:19890/ |

### Connecting a JDBC client to HiveServer2 
HiveServer2 is operating on the default thrift port (10000) on the nn machine speaking thrift
binary protocol.  Starting beeline on your laptop and doing `!connect jdbc:hive2://slave1.example.com:10000` 
will enable you to connect to the system.

### Set up Kerberos (for security)

in /etc/krb5.conf:
```
[logging]
  default = FILE:/var/log/krb5libs.log
  kdc = FILE:/var/log/krb5kdc.log
  admin_server = FILE:/var/log/kadmind.log

[libdefaults]
  default_realm = EXAMPLE.COM
  dns_lookup_realm = false
  dns_lookup_kdc = false
  ticket_lifetime = 24h
  renew_lifetime = 7d
  forwardable = true
  udp_preference_limit = 1

[realms]
  EXAMPLE.COM = {
    kdc = nn.example.com
    admin_server = nn.example.com
  }

[domain_realm]
  .example.com = EXAMPLE.COM
  example.com = EXAMPLE.COM
```

You should be able to kinit to your new domain (user: vagrant and 
password: vagrant):

```
% kinit vagrant@EXAMPLE.COM
```

### Set up browser (for security)

Do a `/usr/bin/kinit vagrant` in a terminal. I've found that the browsers
won't use the credentials from MacPorts' kinit. 

Safari should just work.

Firefox go to "about:config" and set "network.negotiate-auth.trusted-uris" to 
".example.com".

Chrome needs command line parameters on every start and is not recommended.

Commit message:

Added all of the options covered in the current profiles.  Also updated the README.

README.md, after:

# Structor
=======

Vagrant files for creating virtual multi-node Hadoop clusters on various OSes,
both with and without security.

The currently supported OSes and the providers:
* centos 6 (virtualbox and vmware_fusion)

We'd like to get Ubuntu and SUSE support as well.

The currently supported projects:
* Ambari
* Hbase
* HDFS
* Hive
* MapReduce
* Oozie
* Pig
* Tez
* Yarn
* Zookeeper

We'd love to support Spark, Storm, etc. as well.

## Modify the cluster

Structor supports profiles that control the configuration of the
virtual cluster.  There are various profiles stored in the profiles
directory including a default.profile. To pick a different profile,
create a link in the top level directory named current.profile that
links to the desired profile.

Current profiles:
* 1node-nonsecure - a single node non-secure Hadoop cluster
* 1node-secure - a single node secure Hadoop cluster
* 1node-hbase-nonsecure - a single node non-secure Hadoop cluster with HBase
* 1node-hbase-secure - a single node secure Hadoop cluster with HBase
* 3node-analytics-nonsecure - a three node non-secure cluster with HiveServer2 set up.  Note that this does not have a gateway machine, it expects you to use JDBC to get to HS2 from the outside.
* 3node-nonsecure - a three node non-secure Hadoop cluster
* 3node-secure - a three node secure Hadoop cluster
* 3node-hbase-nonsecure - a three node non-secure Hadoop cluster with HBase
* 3node-hbase-secure - a three node secure Hadoop cluster with HBase
* 5node-nonsecure - a five node secure Hadoop cluster

You are encouraged to contribute new working profiles that can be
shared by others.

There is also a tool for creating profiles in `bin/profile-builder.py` that will create a profile file for you.  Its
command line switches allow you to determine cluster size, whether the cluster is secure, and which modules are in
your cluster.  Running `profile-builder.py -h` will return a list of available options.


The types of control knob in the profile file are:
* nodes - a list of virtual machines to create
* security - a boolean for whether kerberos is enabled
* vm_memory - the amount of memory for each vm
* clients - a list of packages to install on client machines

For each host in nodes, you define the name, ip address, and the roles for 
that node. The available roles are:

* client - client/gateway machine
* hbase-master - HBase master
* hbase-regionmaster - HBase region master
* hive-db - Hive Metastore and Oozie backing mysql
* hive-meta - Hive Metastore
* hive-hs2 - HiveServer2
* kdc - kerberos kdc
* nn - HDFS NameNode
* oozie - Oozie master
* slave - HDFS DataNode & Yarn NodeManager
* yarn - Yarn Resource Manager and MapReduce Job History Server
* zk - Zookeeper Server

This is an example of the current default.profile
```
{
  "domain": "example.com",
  "realm": "EXAMPLE.COM",
  "security": false,
  "vm_mem": 2048,
  "server_mem": 300,
  "client_mem": 200,
  "clients" : [ "hdfs", "hive", "oozie", "pig", "tez", "yarn", "zk" ],
  "nodes": [
    { "hostname": "gw", "ip": "240.0.0.10", "roles": [ "client" ] },
    { "hostname": "nn", "ip": "240.0.0.11",
      "roles": [ "kdc", "hive-db", "hive-meta", "nn", "yarn", "zk" ] },
    { "hostname": "slave1", "ip": "240.0.0.12", "roles": [ "oozie", "slave" ] }
  ]
}
```

## Bring up the cluster

Use `vagrant up` to bring up the cluster. This will take 30 to 40 minutes for 
a 3 node cluster depending on your hardware and network connection.

Use `vagrant ssh gw`` to login to the gateway machine. If you configured 
security, you'll need to kinit before you run any hadoop commands.

## Set up on Mac

### Add host names

in /etc/hosts:
```
240.0.0.10 gw.example.com
240.0.0.11 nn.example.com
240.0.0.12 slave1.example.com
240.0.0.13 slave2.example.com
240.0.0.14 slave3.example.com
```

### Finding the Web UIs

| Server      | Non-Secure                   | Secure                        |
|:-----------:|:----------------------------:|:-----------------------------:|
| NameNode    | http://nn.example.com:50070/ | https://nn.example.com:50470/ |
| ResourceMgr | http://nn.example.com:8088/  | https://nn.example.com:8090/  |
| JobHistory  | http://nn.example.com:19888/ | https://nn.example.com:19890/ |

### Connecting a JDBC client to HiveServer2 
HiveServer2 is operating on the default thrift port (10000) on the nn machine speaking thrift
binary protocol.  Starting beeline on your laptop and doing `!connect jdbc:hive2://slave1.example.com:10000` 
will enable you to connect to the system.

### Set up Kerberos (for security)

in /etc/krb5.conf:
```
[logging]
  default = FILE:/var/log/krb5libs.log
  kdc = FILE:/var/log/krb5kdc.log
  admin_server = FILE:/var/log/kadmind.log

[libdefaults]
  default_realm = EXAMPLE.COM
  dns_lookup_realm = false
  dns_lookup_kdc = false
  ticket_lifetime = 24h
  renew_lifetime = 7d
  forwardable = true
  udp_preference_limit = 1

[realms]
  EXAMPLE.COM = {
    kdc = nn.example.com
    admin_server = nn.example.com
  }

[domain_realm]
  .example.com = EXAMPLE.COM
  example.com = EXAMPLE.COM
```

You should be able to kinit to your new domain (user: vagrant and 
password: vagrant):

```
% kinit vagrant@EXAMPLE.COM
```

### Set up browser (for security)

Do a `/usr/bin/kinit vagrant` in a terminal. I've found that the browsers
won't use the credentials from MacPorts' kinit. 

Safari should just work.

Firefox go to "about:config" and set "network.negotiate-auth.trusted-uris" to 
".example.com".

Chrome needs command line parameters on every start and is not recommended.
